모모Well, now Thanksgiving is safely past,
모모more turkey eaten this year than last,
모모more stuffing stuffed, more yams jammed 
모모into our mouths, and using both hands,
모모coleslaw in slews, biscuits by twos, 
모모all of us too fat to fit in our shoes.
모모
모모So let's look ahead to the big holiday
모모that's coming, coming, coming our way.
모모I'm sure you know just what day I mean.
모모It's not Easter Sunday, not Halloween.
모모It's not a day to be sad or listless.
모모It's a day of wonder. It's Christmas!
모모
모모Charlotte and Emily love this season.
모모They're kids, so they have good reason
모모to dream all year of that special
모모eve because they truly and deeply believe
모모a gift-giving fat man flies the sky,
모모with toys and goodies galore. No lie!
모모
모모He'll soon be up there and on his way
모모in a maximum-cool, cherry-red sleigh
모모with camouflage stars on the underside,
모모taking the wildest of all thrill rides,
모모like a roller coaster on tracks of air,
모모pulled by reindeer harnessed in pairs.
모모
모모So someday soon, they'll put up a tree.
모모Why only one? Maybe two, maybe three!
모모Deck it with tinsel and baubles bright.
모모It'll be an amazing and wonderful sight.
모모String colored lights out on the roof-
모모pray none are broken by anything's hoof.
모모
모모Salt down the shingles to melt the ice.
모모If Santa fell, it just wouldn't be nice.
모모He might fracture his leg or even be cut,
모모perhaps even break his big jolly butt.
모모They don't want Santa's butt in a sling.
모모What a ghastly, bad, unthinkable thing.
모모
모모Oh, wait! I just heard terrible news.
모모Hope it won't give you Christmas blues.
모모Santa was mugged, tied up, and gagged,
모모blindfolded, ear-stoppled, and bagged,
모모locked in his cellar under the Pole,
모모down in a dismal, deep, dark, dank hole.
모모
모모Hark! The sound of silver sleigh bells
모모echoes high over the hills and the dells.
모모And look-reindeer far up in the sky!
모모Some silly goose has taught them to fly.
모모The driver giggles quite like a loon-
모모a madman, a goofball, a thug, or a goon.
모모
모모Something is wrong-any fool could tell.
모모If this is Santa, then Santa's not well.
모모His mean little eyes spin just like tops.
모모So somebody better quick call the cops!
모모
모모A closer look confirms his psychosis.
모모And-oh, my dear-really bad halitosis.
모모Beware when Christmas comes this year,
모모because there's something new to fear.
모모Santa's twin-who is rude and mean-
모모stole the sleigh, will make the scene.
모모
모모He's pretending to be his good brother.
모모Guard your beloved children, Mother!
모모Down the chimney and into your home,
모모here comes that deeply troubled gnome.
모모
모모Reindeer sweep down out of the night.
모모See how each is brimming with fright?
모모Tossing their heads, rolling their eyes,
모모these gentle animals are all so wise-
모모they know this Santa isn't their friend,
모모but an imposter and far 'round the bend.
모모
모모They would stampede for all they're worth,
모모dump this nut off the edge of the earth.
모모But Santa's bad brother carries a whip,
모모a club, a chocolate-cream pie at his hip,
모모a blackjack, spitballs-you better run!-
모모and a fearful, horrible, wicked ray gun.
모모
모모They land on the roof, quiet and sneaky.
모모Oh, but this Santa is fearfully freaky.
모모He whispers a warning to each reindeer,
모모leaning close to make sure they hear:
모모"You have relatives back at the Pole-
모모antlered, gentle, quite innocent souls.
모모
모모"So if you fly off while I'm inside,
모모back to the Pole on a plane I will ride.
모모I'll have a picnic in the midnight sun:
모모reindeer pie, pate, reindeer in a bun,
모모reindeer salad, and hot reindeer soup,
모모oh, all sorts of tasty reindeer goop."
모모
모모At the chimney, he looks down the bricks.
모모But that entrance is strictly for hicks.
모모With all his tools, a way in can be found
모모for a fat, bearded burglar out on the town.
모모
모모From roof to backyard to the kitchen door,
모모he chuckles about what he has in store
모모for the good family that's sleeping within.
모모He grins his biggest and nastiest grin.
모모Oh, what a creep, what a scum and a louse.
모모He's boldly breaking into their house!
모모
모모With picks, loids, gwizzels, and zocks,
모모he quickly and silently opens both locks.
모모He enters the kitchen without a sound.
모모Now chances for devilment truly abound.
모모
모모He opens the fridge and eats all the cake,
모모pondering what sort of mess he can make.
모모First he pours milk all over the floor,
모모pickles, pudding, and ketchup-and more!
모모He scatters the bread-white and rye-
모모and finally he spits right into the pie.
모모
모모At the corkboard by the phone and
모모stool, he sees drawings the kids did at school.
모모Emily has painted a kind, smiling face.
모모Charlotte has drawn elephants in space.
모모
모모The villain takes out a red felt-tip pen,
모모taps it, uncaps it, chuckles, and then,
모모on both pictures, scrawls the word "Poo!"
모모he always knows the worst things to do.
모모
모모His mad giggles continue to bubble,
모모while he gets into far greater trouble.
모모He's hugely more evil than he is brave,
모모so then, after he loads up the microwave
모모
모모with ten whole pounds of popping corn
모모(oh, we should rue the day he was born),
모모he turns and runs right out of the room,
모모because that old oven is gonna go BOOM!
모모
모모He prowls the downstairs-wicked, mean-
모모looking to cause yet one more bad scene.
모모When he sees the presents under the tree,
모모he says, "Time for a gift-swapping spree!
모모I'll take out all the really good stuff,
모모then box up dead fish, cat poop, and fluff.
모모
모모"In the morning these kiddies will find
모모coffee grounds, peach pits, orange rinds,
모모old stones, mud pies, and rotten potatoes,
모모hairballs, dead fish, and spoiled tomatoes.
모모Instead of nice sweaters, games, and toys,
모모they'll get slimy stinky stuff that annoys."
모모
모모Charlotte and Emmy are up in their beds,
모모dreams of Christmas filling their heads.
모모Suddenly a sound startles these sleepers.
모모They sit up in bed and open their peepers.
모모Nothing should be stirring, not one mouse,
모모but the girls sense a villain in the house.
모모
모모You can call it psychic, a hunch, osmosis,
모모or maybe they smell the troll's halitosis.
모모They leap out of bed, forgetting slippers,
모모two brave and foolhardy little nippers.
모모"Something's amiss," young Emily whispers.
모모But they can handle it-they're sisters!
모모
모모Down in the living room, under the tree,
모모Santa's evil twin is chortling with glee.
모모He's got a collection of gift replacements
모모taken from dumps, sewers, and basements.
모모
모모He replaces a nice watch meant for Lottie
모모with a nasty gift for a girl who's naughty,
모모which is one thing Lottie has never been.
모모Forgetting her vitamins is her biggest sin.
모모
모모In place of the watch, he wraps up a clot
모모of horrid, glistening, greenish toad snot.
모모From a package for Emily, he steals a doll
모모and gives her a new gift sure to appall.
모모
모모It's slimy, rancid, and starting to fizz.
모모Not even the villain knows what it is.
모모The stink could stop a big runaway truck,
모모it's such gooey, gluey, woozy-making muck.
모모
모모In jammies, slipperless, now on the prowl,
모모the girls go looking for whatever's foul.
모모Right to the top of the stairs they zoom,
모모making less noise than moths in a tomb.
모모
모모They're both so delicate, slim, and petite,
모모and both of them have such tiny pink feet.
모모How can these small girls hope to fight
모모a Santa who's liable to kick and to bite,
모모who has a chocolate-cream pie for throwing,
모모and a fearful ray gun that's softly glowing?
모모
모모Are these girls trained in tae kwon do?
모모No, no, I'm afraid that the answer is no.
모모Grenades tucked in their jammie pockets?
모모Lasers implanted inside their eye sockets?
모모No, no, I'm afraid that the answer is no.
모모Yet down, down the shadowy stairs they go.
모모
모모The danger below, they can't comprehend.
모모This Santa has gone far round the bend.
모모He's meaner than flu, toothaches, blisters.
모모But they're tough too-they're sisters.
모모
모모In the front room, at one of the trees
모모the bad twin of Santa is on his knees,
모모giggling as he stuffs another gift box
모모with a few pairs of his smelly old socks.
모모He snorts and he chortles with evil glee
모모and mutters, "No one will know it was me.
모모
모모"They'll blame my brother, Chris Kringle,
모모and then next Christmas the merry jingle
모모of sleigh bells will alarm and terrorize.
모모Every little kid will watch the skies
모모and scream aloud when the sleigh appears.
모모Oh, for one hundred or two hundred years,
모모
모모"Santa Claus will be feared, distrusted,
모모because everyone will still be disgusted
모모by all the tricks that I play this night.
모모They'll never forgive the harm and fright.
모모The toad snot and snail spit! The slime!
모모This scheme of mine is superb, sublime!
모모
모모"The gift-wrapped broccoli and the spinach!
모모Oh, my goody-goody brother is finished.
모모Brussel-sprouts candy and unsweetened yams,
모모Chicken-gizzard jelly! Lima-bean jams!
모모Boxes full of spiders, worms, and bugs!
모모Old Santa won't be getting any more hugs.
모모
모모Instead, kids will scream, run, and hide,
모모and not one child on the earth will abide
모모the sight of his jolly, merry old face.
모모The cops will be hunting him everyplace.
모모
모모"Searching alleys, cellars, and attics
모모from tropical jungles up to the Arctic.
모모If they jail him-won't that be funny?
모모Then I'll go after the Easter bunny!"
모모
모모From the doorway, the girls have heard
모모every shocking, horrid, despicable word.
모모Christmas is now theirs alone to save.
모모They must be bold. They must be brave.
모모The troll left his ray gun out of reach.
모모Emmy sneaks to it. Isn't she a peach?
모모
모모Lottie makes fists of her small hands.
모모Oh, the time has come to make a stand.
모모Holding the ray gun, Emmy says, "Freeze!"
모모The troll insists: "Better say 'please.'"
모모
모모He rises-a giant. He turns and growls.
모모He hisses, grumbles, and softly howls.
모모His eyes spin. His nose spouts steam.
모모He's a Santa monster from a had dream,
모모capering, threatening: "Booga-ooga-boo!"
모모Lottie says, "We aren't scared of you."
모모
모모The elf declares, "I eat kids for lunch.
모모I eat 'em for breakfast-by the bunch.
모모Sometimes I eat children for supper too,
모모baked in a crust or cooked in a stew."
모모
모모Lottie says, "Listen, mister, you framed
모모your brother, and you oughta be ashamed."
모모Waving the ray gun, young Emmy commands,
모모"Up with your hands, up with your hands!
모모
모모"This alien weapon will turn you to dust.
모모Or maybe to cinders. Or maybe to rust.
모모Or maybe to cornflakes or maybe to mice.
모모Whatever it does, I'm sure it's not nice."
모모
모모The troll is not merely evil but quick.
모모Up his big sleeve he has one more trick.
모모From his hip holster he suddenly draws
모모a chocolate-cream pie. He knows no laws.
모모
모모He's a gangster, a thug, a bad boy indeed,
모모and he flings the pie with fearful speed.
모모Lottie studies ballet and has some grace.
모모She spins-but still gets pie in the face.
모모
모모Emmy fires the ray gun. Oh, no! Oh, no!
모모The living room magically fills with snow.
모모It's a weather gun, some strange device.
모모The fireplace mantel is all hung with ice.
모모From out of the ceiling a blizzard falls,
모모drifting over furniture and up the walls.
모모
모모The malevolent elf can't repress a giggle.
모모"From this one, child, you cannot wriggle.
모모For this big mess, you won't be thanked.
모모In fact, I bet you're gonna get spanked.
모모Spanked so hard that your ears will slip
모모all the way down, down, down to your lips."
모모
모모Then instead of cooking them in a stew
모모or brewing some tasty little-girl brew,
모모the giggling troll flees into the night.
모모The girls give chase, 'cause it isn't right
모모that he should be allowed to skip and run
모모after ruining Christmas, spoiling the fun.
모모
모모Like many bullies, he's bluster and bluff.
모모He's not really made of very stem stuff.
모모The two girls chase him out the front door.
모모He slip-slides across the icy porch floor,
모모falls down the steps, flat on the ground,
모모and lands with a rubbery, blubbery sound.
모모
모모The sisters run barefoot into the snow
모모to make sure he doesn't jump up and go.
모모"Knocked himself silly. What'll we do?"
모모asks Charlotte as her pink feet turn blue.
모모
모모Suddenly eight reindeer descend from above,
모모each deer flying with the grace of a dove
모모to the snowy lawn in front of the house,
모모making less sound than one wary mouse.
모모
모모A deer says, "Christmas mustn't be bleak."
모모Emmy gasps, "Since when do reindeer speak?"
모모"Magical reindeer," Charlotte supposes.
모모In agreement the deer twitch their noses.
모모
모모One reindeer licks at Charlotte's face
모모and says, "My, what a very unusual place
모모to find chocolate pudding Christmas night."
모모Lottie replies, "I was in a pie fight."
모모
모모Girls, you must come with us to the Pole.
모모Santa's in a dismal, deep, dark, dank hole.
모모We've deliveries to make-games and toys-
모모to millions and millions of girls and boys."
모모
모모The sisters aren't dressed for the Pole
모모or for any dismal, deep, dark, dank hole.
모모So the reindeer wiggle their magic snoots,
모모and now the girls are standing in boots.
모모
모모Pajamas transform into snowsuits of red,
모모nothing at all like what they wore to bed.
모모Woolen mittens, long scarves, jaunty caps,
모모"What about a driver's license and maps?"
모모
모모"No maps are needed," or so the deer say.
모모"No license required to drive this sleigh-
모모just a lot of faith and a good pure heart.
모모That's all that you need to do your part."
모모
모모They have a problem with Santa's had twin,
모모who's flat on the ground on belly and chin.
모모He's knocked out cold. Wow, does he snore!
모모Loading him into the sleigh-what a chore.
모모
모모First the old troll must be tied up tight
모모to prevent trouble the rest of the night.
모모They bind him fast with jump ropes and Slinkys
모모and tie his long mustache to his pinkies.
모모
모모Lifting him into the sleigh-they'll fail,
모모because he weighs half as much as a whale.
모모Reindeer noses twitch-the magic is back.
모모Something stirs in the real Santa's sack.
모모
모모Teddy bears, stuffed dogs, toy monkeys too:
모모all spring to life. It's a magical zoo.
모모They help the girls load up the evil Claus,
모모using their hands, their tails, their paws.
모모
모모With huffing and puffing the job gets done,
모모although heaving an evil Claus is no fun.
모모The last toy returns to the sack with a wave,
모모and Lottie grabs the reins. She's so brave!
모모
모모In the sleigh Emmy sits by her sister's side
모모and says to the deer, "Let's start this ride.
모모To the top of the world! Up, up in the sky!
모모Let's see if reindeer really know how to fly."
모모
모모Up into the night the eight reindeer spring.
모모The bells on their harnesses all softly ring.
모모Up toward the stars and the big frosty moon.
모모Charlotte says, "I think I'm going to swoon.
모모
모모No, no," says Emmy, "we must save Saint Nick.
모모And I think I might possibly be getting sick.
모모I'm so woozy, and my head's spinning around.
모모Oh, I've just got to hold my cookies down."
모모
모모Reindeer are flyers of fabulous skill.
모모Soon turbulence passes and all is still.
모모Across the deep sea of stars they sail.
모모And our little Emmy is no longer pale.
모모
모모Ahead an airliner appears in the sky.
모모That's no surprise. Airliners can fly.
모모The reindeer soar high over the craft.
모모A passengers sees-thinks himself daft.
모모
모모Moonshadows of deer slide over the wing,
모모a breathtaking and a beautiful thing.
모모That passenger will arrive home tonight
모모holding in his heart a brand-new light.
모모
모모The plane is gone, the North Pole looms.
모모The sleigh arcs down. The reindeer zoom
모모toward a hard, endless, icy wasteland.
모모"Emmy," says Lottie, "give me your hand!"
모모
모모Straight down, down, and down some more.
모모"There's going to be such blood and gore,
모모squeals Emmy. "Oh, we're going to crash!"
모모But one reindeer says, "Don't be so rash.
모모
모모
모모"Believe in Santa and look down again.
모모Believing makes the difference, so then
모모you'll see Santa's village spread below
모모a wonderland of light and ice and snow."
모모
모모"I see it," says Emmy, "oh, I really do!"
모모"I see it, I see it!" Charlotte says too.
모모Cottages, lamplight, and gleaming spires,
모모colorful lights on invisible wires.
모모
모모Trees hung with icing, gingerbread shrubs,
모모bottled root beer in street-corner tubs,
모모movie theaters where shows play for free,
모모with popcorn and ice cream. Oh, golly gee!
모모
모모T he reindeer land on their delicate feet,
모모racing swiftly along the glittering street
모모to the golden heart of the village square,
모모to the house of houses standing there.
모모
모모No doubt it's the house of Santa Claus.
모모The girls recognize it at once, because
모모Carved over the door in a lintel of wood:
모모HE KNOWS IF YOU'VE BEEN BAD OR GOOD.
모모
모모T he village seems deserted, eerily quiet.
모모A dropping pin would sound like a riot.
모모No sign at all of the toy-making elves.
모모Where might they have taken themselves?
모모
모모A reindeer says, "Their good work is done.
모모Now they're all on vacation, having fun.
모모In Tahiti, Jamaica, Pittsburgh, and France.
모모Some to Texas: They like to square-dance."
모모
모모Where's Mrs. Claus?" Emmy asks with awe.
모모"Bernice?" says a deer. "She's at a spa
모모in California. Somewhere on the coast
모모bathing in the sun, as brown as toast.
모모
모모"Santa always joins her on Christmas Day.
모모It's their once-a-year chance to get away.
모모By the middle of January they come back
모모to start filling next year's big toy sack."
모모
모모Lottie and Emmy spring from the sleigh,
모모dashing to Santa's house straightaway.
모모The door is ajar. Blame the bad twin.
모모They push it open and dare to go in.
모모
모모A hallway glows with warm twinkly light,
모모gilded, coffered, paneled-just right.
모모No sign of-Santa. But there's some mud
모모the bad twin tracked in. Then-a thud!
모모
모모A  thud from the cellar far down below.
모모No time to waste. The two girls go
모모to a massively timbered door they spy,
모모and down the cellar stairs they fly.
모모
모모Down, down, around, and down some more
모모in lantern light to a cold stone floor.
모모A huge burlap bag, spotted with grime:
모모This is it-the scene of the crime!
모모
모모Untie the knot! Quick, open the sack!
모모Santa's inside! Pull the burlap back!
모모Off with the blindfold! And the gag!
모모Off with these ropes! Out of the bag!
모모
모모He jumps to his feet, almost topples,
모모steadies himself, pops his ear stopples.
모모"Dear girls! How well you have behaved!
모모Without you Christmas couldn't be saved."
모모
모모Oh, this is Santa, no doubt about that.
모모From his boots to the porn-porn on his hat,
모모he's radiant, glorious, a sight to behold,
모모the elf about whom so many tales are told.
모모He laughs-ho ho ho! His merry eyes shine.
모모His sweet, kindly smile is simply divine.
모모
모모"You're Emily. And Charlotte. I know you.
모모You're two good girls, through and through.
모모I've never had to bring you lumps of coal
모모on one of my annual trips from the Pole.
모모Those were magic ropes, blindfold, and gag.
모모Only good kids could free me from that bag."
모모
모모Says Emmy, "The bad Claus is in the sleigh,
모모tied up tight. Now let's be on our way.
모모We must save Christmas-it's getting late."
모모Lottie says, "Hold on a minute. Just wait.
모모I'm wondering why, at this magical Pole
모모your cellar is such a deep, dark hole."
모모
모모Santa winces, sighs. "Also dismal and dank.
모모And when we first moved in, it really stank.
모모We have a problem with ground-water seepage
모모and really persistent purple fungus creepage.
모모Girls, everyone has troubles, even Saint Nick.
모모So smile and be merry. That's the trick!"
모모
모모Back in the square in front of the house,
모모the little stuffed toys unload the louse
모모who's wrapped up in jump ropes and Slinkys,
모모his mustache still secured to his pinkies.
모모He's wide awake now and not half so fearful.
모모The real Santa Claus gives him an earful.
모모
모모"What in the world were you trying to do?
모모Surely you're not bad through and through.
모모Confused, misguided, no doubt about that.
모모You wear my suit well-especially the hat.
모모Always be nice to kids, give 'em a smile.
모모They'll all love you too-after a while."
모모
모모Emmy says, "Be nice, as you were taught.
모모When you're bad, you'll always be caught.
모모What if we told your mom what you've done,
모모then would being bad really be much fun?"
모모Lottie says, "You even hit me with a pie.
모모If your mom knew it all, wouldn't she cry?"
모모
모모Emmy shakes her finger. "Oh, shame on you.
모모Don't you know before everything you do,
모모you must ask yourself how Mom would feel
모모to know you'd done it? That's the seal
모모of approval and the guidance we all need
모모to help us be good and to do good deeds."
모모
모모The bad Claus's eyes well up with tears.
모모He sniffles, then blubbers, when he hears
모모the girls mention Mother. "Oh, please!
모모But for the Slinkys,I'd be on my knees,
모모begging you not to tell dear Mama Claus
모모all the bad things I've done, because
모모
모모"she's the sweetest and kindest of souls
모모you'll ever find between the two poles.
모모I've been thoughtless, so mean and bad.
모모But I never wanted to make Mama sad.
모모I've been as badas a bad boy could be
모모because I never thought Mama would see."
모모
모모Lottie says, "No one can fool his mother
모모any more than kids can fool your brother.
모모Sooner or later every mom always knows
모모if you've been bad or good. It shows.
모모Scary, I know, but that's how it goes.
모모Now stop blubbering and wipe your nose."
모모
모모Snow begins to fall from the polar skies
모모as Santa says, "Girls, you are both wise.
모모I'm giving you two brand-new blue bikes
모모and to your parents-whatever each likes.
모모And you will come along to share the joy
모모as I bring gifts to every girl and boy."
모모
모모Un-Slinky'd, with all jump ropes unwound,
모모Santa's brother leaps up from the ground.
모모"Let's hurry and undo all that I've done,
모모or this year Christmas won't be much fun."
모모
모모A	crowded sleigh-two Clauses, two girls-
모모rockets into the sky as the snow swirls.
모모"Good reindeer, I'm sorry for all I said.
모모I had the meanies, shoulda stayed in bed."
모모So explains the previously twisted twin,
모모who's better now than he's recently been.
모모
모모Lottie and Emmy are afraid that the crime
모모can't be undone. There's too little time.
모모But Santa can deliver in a single hour,
모모by stretching time with his magical power.
모모
모모Flying like a comet, chased by the sun,
모모they sneak past every police radar gun.
모모The best trick of all: At any one time,
모모they can be in many places-oh, 9009.
모모How this is possible no one explains,
모모leaving the girls with headache pains.
모모
모모At last all gifts have been given away,
모모and still night hasn't turned into day.
모모They race the sun to the girls' place,
모모where soon it's time for them to face
모모Mom and Dad on the snowy front lawn.
모모Someone might be spanked before dawn.
모모
모모Pouring out through the open front door
모모is popcorn. And from a few windows-more.
모모Popcorn has popped from the chimney too.
모모"Oh, what a terrible thing did I do?"
모모asks the once-bad Claus, who now behaves.
모모"Ten pounds of corn and some microwaves
모모
모모"can do more damage than I ever thought.
모모Gee, I have to admit I was never taught
모모to be such a mischievous fat old elf.
모모I'm totally, thoroughly ashamed of myself.
모모Girls, I'll see that you're both thanked.
모모If anyone is, I'll be the one spanked."
모모
모모Down to the front yard the reindeer fly.
모모Mom and Dad are waiting to be told why
모모their house has become a popcorn machine,
모모waking them from their Christmas dreams.
모모They stand in pajamas, robes, and slippers,
모모gazing up at their sleigh-flying nippers.
모모
모모From the sleigh into Mom and Dad's arms,
모모both girls use their clever-child charms
모모to keep Santa's brother from being paddled.
모모"Forgive him. He was temporarily addled.
모모But he helped put Christmas back on tack.
모모He'll never again stuff Santa in a sack."
모모
모모Santa says, "I'm Santa and this is my twin.
모모His name is Bob. Will you let us come in
모모to clean up the mess, set everything right,
모모before dawn puts an end to this magic night?
모모Your house is the last stop on our journeys,
모모and I sincerely hope we can avoid attorneys."
모모
모모With mouths wide open as if to catch flies,
모모Mom and Dad gaze at the sleigh, the skies.
모모The sight of the red-suited smiling Clauses
모모leaves their eyes wide and apparently causes
모모an attack of whim-whams. They can't speak.
모모Dad softly peeps, Mom squeaks a small squeak.
모모
모모Santa says, "I'll assume the answer is yes."
모모Then he and Bob, in three minutes or less,
모모Vaporize all the popcorn, clean up the mud,
모모magically transform the toad snot and crud
모모into gifts that are sure to please everyone
모모and ensure Christmas morning is nonstop fun.
모모
모모Out in the front yard, each girl gets a hug
모모from each of the Clauses. Cute as a bug-
모모each girl, that is. Well, each Claus too.
모모Bob says, "I left a big brown cow for you,
모모prettily gift-wrapped, by one of the trees."
모모Then Santa wants to turn Bob over his knee.
모모
모모Bob says, "Giving a cow-that's not mean.
모모Remember, with milk we can make ice cream!"
모모Santa gives his brother a very stern look,
모모and Bob decides to operate more by the book.
모모"Okay, so I'll change the cow into a guppy.
모모Better yet, make it a small black puppy."
모모
모모Then into the big sleigh each Claus bounds.
모모Mom and Dad are still making curious sounds:
모모gasps of surprise and squeaks and peeps.
모모What is the particular problem that keeps
모모grown-ups from accepting that magic is real,
모모that it's okay to believe in what you feel?
모모
모모Into the night, eight reindeer take flight.
모모The big soaring sleigh is a wondrous sight.
모모Then Santa and Bob call out from on high:
모모"Yo, Lottie! Yo, Emmy! Goodbye, goodbye!
모모Believing in magic, you saved Christmas Day.
모모Keep believing in us after we've gone away!"
